website/docs: add force password reset guide (#15654)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/troubleshooting/force_password_reset.mdx

---
title: Force password reset on next login
---

> It's possible to utilize expression policies, custom stages, and a custom user attribute to force users to reset their password on next login. This guide describes how to configure this in conjunction with the `default-authentication-flow`, however the same process can be used with any authentication flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use expression policies, custom stages, and a custom user attribute to require users to reset their password on their next login. This guide explains how to set this up with the `default-authentication-flow`, however the same steps apply to any authentication flow.
```

3. Select **Expression Policy** as the policy type, click **Next**, and configure the following settings:
    - **Name**: Provide a descriptive name for the policy (e.g. `reset_password_check`).
    - **Expression**:

        ```python
        # Check if user has the "reset_password" attribute set to true
        if request.context["pending_user"].attributes.get("reset_password") == True:
            return True

        return False
        ```

4. Click **Finish** to create the policy and repeat the process to create the second policy with the following settings:
    - **Name**: Provide a descriptive name for the policy (e.g. `reset_password_update`).
    - **Expression**:

        ```python
        # Check if user has the "reset_password" attribute set to true
        if request.context["pending_user"].attributes.get("reset_password") == True:
            # Sets the user's "reset_password" attribute set to false so that they're not forced to reset their password upon next login
            request.context["pending_user"].attributes["reset_password"] = False
            return True

        return False
        ```

5. Click **Finish**.

## Create stages

> You will need to create two stages; a prompt stage to prompt the user for a new password, and a user write stage to write the new password to the user's account. Both of these stages will need to be bound to the authentication flow that's in use, usually the `default-authentication-flow`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’ll need to create two stages: a **Prompt** stage to prompt the user to enter a new password, and a **User Write** stage to update the user’s account with the new password. Both stages must be bound to the active authentication flow, typically the `default-authentication-flow`.
```

"active" authentication flow. Open to better wording. Also, for the flow name, we already mentioned it at start of doc, so id remove it here as well
